Feature-HowTo-Extensions (#191)
rancher-sandbox/docs.rancherdesktop.io: docs/how-to-guides/installing-uninstalling-extensions.md

---
title: Installing and Uninstalling Rancher Desktop Extensions
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import TabsConstants from '@site/core/TabsConstants';

> Rancher Desktop introduces **Extensions** with the new `v1.9.0-tech-preview` release. The implementation allows for users to extend Rancher Desktop's functionality to better suit their needs. This guide will demonstrate how to install and uninstall extensions on the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Extensions** feature introduced in the `v1.9.0-tech-preview` release enables you to use **Docker Desktop Extensions** within Rancher Desktop. The feature helps you extend Rancher Desktop's functionality to meet your additional needs. This guide will demonstrate how to install and uninstall Docker extensions in Rancher Desktop.
```

Author: Just updated the intro with new commit, thanks for the review Guna!

### Prerequisites

Rancher Desktop Extensions are available as part of release `v1.9.0-tech-preview` or later.

### Installing Extensions

There are two ways in which you can install extensions, a method using the UI and another using the `rdctl extension install` command.

<Tabs groupId="os" defaultValue={TabsConstants.defaultOs}>
<TabItem value="Windows">

#### Using the UI

1. Click **Extensions** from the main UI to navigate to the **Catalog** tab. Here you can search through extensions available for use.

![](https://suse-rancher-media.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/desktop/1.9-tech-preview/how-to/Windows_Extensions.png)

2. When you find an extension you want to use, click on the extension to open the **Detail** view, then click on the **Install** button on the right hand side as seen in the image below. 

![](https://suse-rancher-media.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/desktop/1.9-tech-preview/how-to/Windows_Extensions-Details.png)

> 3. Please shutdown and restart your Rancher Desktop application for changes to take effect.

Reviewer: We don't have to shutdown and restart Rancher Desktop to see the changes after installing an extension.
